content/categories/track-cycling/_index.md, before:

---
title: The Joy of Track Cycling
description: A series of articles are pure joy of riding fast on steeply banked velodromes
---

{{< figure src="img/track-cover-photo-2.jpg" >}}

Welcome to Track Nut!  These pages started in their own website (tracknut.ca), got abandoned, and then resurrected here. Maybe they will even get added to in the future... who knows!

My lifelong friend and cycling buddy [Robin](https://www.physics.utoronto.ca/~marj/Home.html) and I are a couple of, well *old*, guys from Ontario that have re-discovered the joy of track cycling after over 30 years absence from the track. With the construction of the amazing [Mattamy National Cycling Centre](http://www.mattamynationalcyclingcentre.ca/en/index.asp) in 2015 for thge Pan-Am games, we couldn't resist the lure of a [UCI class 1 velodrome](http://www.uci.ch/track/news/article/what-you-should-know-about-velodromes/) on our doorstep.

In the winter the velodrome is my second home, I travel to Toronto every week or two. We're generally on the track multiple times a week. I also volunteer, at the track helping to run events. And I coach, supporting [Ottawa Bicycle Club](https://www.ottawabicycleclub.ca/) Youth and Racing program athletes at the [Mattamy National Cycling Centre](http://www.mattamynationalcyclingcentre.ca/en/index.asp), or at one of our two other velodromes in the region - [Centre National de Cyclisme de Bromont](https://www.velodromebromont.ca/) south of Montreal and the [Forest City Velodrome](http://www.forestcityvelodrome.ca/) in London Ontario.

I'm passionate about track, and have introduced over a hundred people from age 9 to senior citizens to the fun of riding steeply banked velodromes. I run "Introduction to Track Cycling" trips to 

# Articles in this Series:

Commit message:

fixed a bunch of config changes and added the tubeless tires article

content/categories/track-cycling/_index.md, after:

---
title: Track Cycling
description: A series of articles are pure joy of riding fast on steeply banked velodromes
categories:
---

{{< figure src="img/track-cover-photo-2.jpg" class="center">}}

**Note:** This series of articles was written in 2017 on their own website, then abandoned. I've resurrected and updated them here.

Back in 2015, I re-discovered the joy of track cycling after 30 years absence from the track. With the construction of the [Mattamy National Cycling Centre](http://www.mattamynationalcyclingcentre.ca/en/index.asp) in Milton for the Pan-Am games, I couldn't resist the lure of an international class velodrome within driving distance.

I also volunteer, at the track helping to run events. And I coach, supporting [Ottawa Bicycle Club](https://www.ottawabicycleclub.ca/) Youth and Racing program athletes at the [Mattamy National Cycling Centre](http://www.mattamynationalcyclingcentre.ca/en/index.asp), or at one of our two other velodromes in the region - [Centre National de Cyclisme de Bromont](https://centrenationalbromont.com/velodrome-multisports/) south of Montreal and the [Forest City Velodrome](https://www.forestcityvelodrome.ca/) in London Ontario.

I'm passionate about track, and have introduced over 150 people from age 9 to senior citizens to the fun of riding steeply banked velodromes.

# Articles in this Series
